---
layout: post
title: 浏览器资料
date: 2011-12-14 09:59:00
categories: []
tags: [浏览器, browser, parsing, js引擎, database, bookmarks]
---
The browser kernel treats the rendering engine as a black box that parses web content and emits bitmaps of the rendered document.

(浏览器)内核+渲染引擎+JS引擎

**(1)内核**:Cookie,访问历史,密码,窗口管理,地址栏,黑名单,网络协议栈,SSL/TLS,磁盘Cache,下载管理,剪贴板
Cookie database,History database,Password database,Window management,Location bar,Safe Browsing blacklist,Network stack,SSL/TLS,Disk cache,Download manager,Clipboard
**(2)渲染引擎**:HTML解析,CSS解析,图像解码,正则表达式,布局,DOM,渲染,SVG,XML解析,XSLT
HTML parsing,CSS parsing,Image decoding,Regular expressions,Layout,Document Object Model,Rendering,SVG,XML parsing,XSLT
**(3)JS引擎**:



内核:提供API
Browser Kernel. The browser kernel is responsible for managing multiple instances of the rendering engine and for implementing the browser kernel API
(see Section 5). For example, the browser kernel implements a tab-based windowing system, including a location bar that displays the URL of the currently active tab its associated security indicators. The browser kernel manages persistent state, such as the
 user's bookmarks, cookies, and saved passwords. It is also responsible for interacting with the network and intermediating between the rendering engine and the operating system's native window manager. To implement its API, the browser kernel maintains state
 information about the privileges it has granted to each rendering engine, such as a list of which les each rendering engine is permitted to upload. The browser kernel uses this state to implement a security policy that constrains how a compromised rendering
 engine can interact with the user's operating system.

Chrome每个Tab页对于一个渲染引擎

